(Upbeat music)
All right, let's talk about navigating from page to page.
There's a couple of different ways that we can do it.
So first we probably don't want to write links
on every single page.
So if we want to make a reusable navigation,
that's where we create a component.
So a page is going to be every single page that we have,
and a component can be reusable pieces
that are used inside of those pages.
So let's go inside of our components folder,
and we're going to create a new file.
That's called, Nav.js
And then in here,
it's the same rules as creating a react component
in regular reacts.
So first we're going to import React from 'react'.
Then we are going to make our component.
So I'm going to have a function.
Will you will call that our Nav,
and then I always like to export default that function.
Sometimes you'll see people do a const Nav= ()=> something
and that is the exact same thing as this.
I just prefer to have a regular function and there's really
no other, there's nothing else to that.
There's no up or down to that, so you choose whatever is,
good for you.
So from that, we are going to return,
well let's return a nav element,
and then inside of that we'll have an unordered list,
and inside of that
we'll have a list item that let's just do a graph.
I'll show you why we're not going to use
a RAF in just a second,
but let's say homepage is going to link to forward slash
and then we'll duplicate that over and we'll do beers.
Let's say beers.
Now, if we go into each of our pages that need the nav,
we'll go into our Slicemasters here and we'll import Nav
from we'll go up a level into components
and then grab our Nav.
Then if we go into here,
we simply can just use our Nav component
and you'll see that it shows up on SlicemastersPage
and if I click it,
I'm actually able to go to the Homepage.
So let's go to our index page, do the exact same thing.
I'm just going to copy that import statement
from Slicemasters and then put our Nav in there as well.
You can see it shows up in there, so, finally,
let's do it on the Beers page so we can see that as well,
paste that in then
(indistinct)
for ourselves in Nav, here we go.
So go from home, beers,
home, beers
we're going back and forth,
but you see how we're getting this like
a whole page reload here.
And like you see that the content disappear for a quick
second and then it shows up.
And this is just what the very simple website.
It would be much longer if we had a bigger website.
So instead of using regular anchor links inside of Gatsby,
we use the link tag and the link tag we'll,
just render out an anchor link,
but it will be supercharged,
or it will be sort of loaded with a Java script
that is needed to do push date.
So let me show you the difference here.
Let's go up here and we'll import curly brackets,
capital L link from Gatsby.
And this is what is referred to as a named import
from Gatsby.
So Gatsby, the package will export a whole bunch of stuff.
One of the things is a link component.
Then if we go to our anchor link,
let's just do it for the Homepage right now.
And if we replaced that anchor link with an actual link tag
and then change the ref to
I realized that I'm probably the only person that says ref,
but change it to a href, H R E F.
And so link to forward slash, now watch this.
So we'll go to our beers page that does the full page reload
But now when I click on home, boom!
see how fast it is go to beer home boom!
nice and fast.
So let's swap this other one over to link two.
And now when I click on them,
you'll see what's happening is this is actually
not reloading the page.
We are simply just swapping out the components,
home and beers.
And then when you click on them,
they will do, what's called HTML five push state.
And that will change the URL bar in there as well as
it gives us some
back history in our browser, which is pretty cool.
So almost always I would go as far to say as 97 point no
98.7% of the time,
you will be using a link tag
to change from page to page,
whoever there are times when you want to programmatically
change the pages when somebody submits a form
or when somebody clicks a specific button
or for whatever reason,
if you need to programmatically change the page
and not just rely on the user to click a link,
then you can programmatically change.
So this is the difference.
You might hear this thrown around a lot in react land.
It's the difference between declarative and imperative.
So this is declarative, we declare how it works.
And then imperative is you don't declare how it works.
You actually write the code as to what happens
when something wants something else
as a result of something else happening like a form submit.
So let's do a little example down here.
Let's do another list item that says
that has a button inside of it.
And then it says,
click me to see Slicemasters
after two seconds.
So what we wanna do is when somebody clicks on this button,
we want to go to the Slicemasters page,
but not immediately after two seconds.
So what you would do in that case
is you have an on click handler
and that is with curly brackets.
And then we can write a function
that's called go to Slicemasters.
And then we'll just console log, go to slicers.
Then when somebody clicks it, we will simply say,
go to Slicemasters.
And it, see this red underline here.
We're going to see this a lot.
This is the IES lint config that I have.
And these are super helpful because it will tell you
when something you're doing is potentially bad
for accessibility or for the functionality of our code.
So it says it's missing an explicit type attribute
for buttons.
So buttons always need a type,
even though if it's just the type of button,
which seems odd, but it has to work like that.
Alright, there we go.
So now when I click on it,
you see that we get this console log go to slicers.
So now what if I wanted to one, wait for two seconds
and then two change the page.
So let's try that.
So one wait for two seconds.
So that is a set timeout
and that timeout will run after two seconds.
And then let's just put that console log
instead of the inside of the set timeout.
So now clear my console here, click at one two.
There we go.
We see the console log is popping up there, right?
So now how do we programmatically?
Well, you can also from Gatsby, you can import navigate.
You see that my vs code knows it's smart enough
to know that navigate is an export from Gatsby.
And then in here we can simply just say navigate,
and we can say to forward slash Slicemasters,
give to save.
Now watch when I click it one, two,
and then it changed the actual page up on here.
There are a couple of options.
Most notably the option that you might want
to pass here is called a replace of true.
And what that will do is it will actually add you to the
browser history.
So if this is something that you want people to click
the back button to, then you want to pass replace of true.
So, and that will then show up in your,
browser history.
So it's not all that often that I will use that,
also mostly because I use Gatsby for websites,
and this is more of a web app thing.
And you shouldn't be using buttons as links
because it's annoying.
You can't like right click open a new tab.
You can't bookmark it or anything like that.
So almost always you will be using the link tag,
whoever that API navigate is there, should you ever need it.
So I'm gonna back that up.
We don't need that actually in this entire course,
but I thought I would let you know exactly how that works.
So what I want to do now is let's modify this nav
just a little bit.
So we linked to that.
We'll just say Hot Now we'll call the homepage Hot Now.
Second link we're actually not gonna put beers
in the navigation's
gonna be something that is just accessible via
other links on the page.
So we'll just say link to pizzas.
And that was a pizza menu.
I'll have another list item with a link tag.
You see how handy that Emma is.
So I'm just hitting li and then control E to open up li.
And then inside of that, I have a link
and I open that up too,
we are going to put the logo here.
So just type in logo, another list item
of link to Slicemasters.
And then finally we want a link to the order page,
order ahead.
And we're going to style this all in just a little bit.
So now when we go to the page you see we can go
from page to page and the ones that have the navigation on,
we're able to, see the nav and without it changing.
So now we got the whole Nav up there,
in the next video we're going to talk a little bit more
about layouts,
so I don't need to import this nav into every single page.
It should just happen automatically.
So I'll see in that one.